hello again everybody la Isla Montgomery
here another episode and other Chung you
this one describes a situation most of
us working stiffs might have come across
at least once in the arc of their career
this Chong you this Chinese saying is
used to describe people who act big and
strike fear and others by living in the
shadow of someone powerful this is the
story of the Fox and the tiger and for
this one we have to once again as we so
often do wind the clock back to the
warring States Period the latter half of
the Eastern Cho dynasty so many of these
Chinese sayings seem to come from that
era the source for this Chung you is the
John quotes huh the strategies of the
warring States one of the few primary
sources of those times today we're
looking at one of these several warring
States the kingdom of Chu mighty chu no
one ever thought this kingdom could ever
be taken down but indeed they one day
got beat our story takes place during
the time of King Shen of chu qu shang
wang 369 to 340 BCE this is comparable
to Alexander the Great to the west the
young Alexander that is today we look at
the old classic ho ja whole wait once
again we break it down uno a uno first
character who second tone this means a
fox the second character is Gia in this
case means to borrow huija a fox borrows
moving right along we come to another
hole but this whole my friends is not a
fox this whole has the third tone Oh
therefore this means tiger who is a fox
hole is a tiger the fourth character is
way way means power might strength or
prestige so whole way means the might or
the power of the tiger once again string
it all together and we get Fox borrow
tiger might
okay I can see some are you nodding
thinking you got it this is sort of like
wheel of fortune you could perhaps guess
the meaning of these for clues right out
of the starting gate well like all Chung
you there's an ancient story behind this
and today's is for more than twenty
three centuries ago qu shang wang qing
shin of chu was wondering one day why
was it that the people to the north and
han way and she were so terrified and
scared of his general joshi's shoe he
kept hearing stories how people
particularly feared this one general so
he asked his minister Yun GE why was
that he had to be careful how you
answered these kinds of questions so
young he tried to be tactful he used a
fable that he was familiar with to
explain to King Shen of Chu because it
had animals in it it's a fable rather
than a parable he began to say to King
Shen that once upon a time there was a
fox that wasn't being vigilant one day
and a tiger snuck up on him and snatched
him in his jaws the Fox of course begged
for his life and said to this tiger it
wouldn't be such a wise idea to eat them
the tiger asked oh yeah why is that and
that Fox replied you will defy the gods
themselves who made me the chief of the
forest when the Fox saw the skepticism
and the Tiger's eyes he continued you
should be fearful of their wrath if you
dare eat me release me and see for
yourself how the gods have empowered me
and how all creatures of this forest
cower in fear and flee at the first
sight of me the tiger thought this over
and decided he had better hedge his bets
so he released the Fox and followed him
closely through the forest to see if his
wild claims were true sure enough
wherever they went every mammal bird and
reptile who saw the fox coming at once
began fleeing for their lives it was
quite a scene that the Fox walking
through the forest head held high tiger
right behind him putting on airs like he
actually held this authority passed to
him directly by the gods he
strutted and made it look in front of
the tiger like they were all running
away from him but you can guess the real
reason that Tiger was given this fox a
full-court press and was right on his
tail he didn't want this potential snack
getting away but he just couldn't fail
to notice how every animal took one look
at the fox and scattered in every
direction little did this tiger know
that all those eyeballs were on him and
the reason they were scattering was
because of him the tiger oblivious to
the situation sent to the Fox you are
indeed something else I can't believe
how fared you are in the forest I guess
the gods indeed have made you the chosen
one to rule these lands right therefore
must let you go and take my leave the
Minister Jang Yi side and set to King
Shen you see general Chow shishu who was
so feared by the people of the north
he's the Fox and the Kings powerful army
that general Chow issue commands X as
the tiger the northern people who flee
upon hearing General Charles name they
are the animals in the forest the qu
king figured out it wasn't Chow issue
the people of the north feared it was
the size and viciousness of his great
Chu army that was feared Chou Hsiu was
only able to act rough and tough and
powerful because he commanded this
terrible army with such a fearsome
fighting reputation I'm not sure what
the English equivalent is but well to
bully people by wrapping yourself up in
the authority of a powerful backer is
what this Chinese saying is all about if
you're suffering from let's say an abuse
of manager or supervisor is really
nothing but pushes you around because
his brother sisters the president of the
company that's a clear case of ho ja who
wait some secretary or personal
assistants who's always giving you a
hard time because they work for some big
politician or celebrity oh ja who wait
anyone usually someone small minded or
evil can be said to be ho ja who wait if
they are using someone else's power to
browbeat or force others to put up with
all kinds
of petty bullying it can even be used
geopolitically to describe states who
push other states around because they're
allied with a greater power ho ja who
wait yeah has been around since forever
the Fox borrows the Tigers might I hope
this one is now indelibly attached to
your neurons for future use if any of
you have one of these huija huway types
in your life you have my deepest
sympathies okay that's it for this time
but rest assured I'll be back next week
for another useful and interesting Chun
you a Chinese saying for your
ever-growing collection think about
wandering over to tea cup dot media to
go check out our other China cultural
shows the long-running and
internationally award-winning China
history podcast and the China vintage
hour and much much more to come just
wait and see and don't forget if you're
flying cathay pacific airways you can
also listen to this exact same Chinese
sayings podcast as well as the China
history podcast next to a good night's
sleep nothing helps you beat a 14-hour
flight more than that until the next
time my no finda this is laszlo
Montgomery on behalf of Joe way leading
the team at the crc the chengdu research
center wishing you a fond farewell and
imploring you to please consider coming
back next time for another episode here
at the chinese sayings podcast